Billing content (#534)
neondatabase/website: content/docs/introduction/billing.md

---
title: Billing
enableTableOfContents: true
isDraft: true
---

Neon offers the following plans: **Free Tier**, **Pro**, **Enterprise**, and **Platform Partnership**. The Pro plan is _usage-based_, ensuring you never over-provision and only pay for what you use. The **Enterprise** and **Platform Partnership** plans are custom volume-based plans that offer potential discounts. You can find out more about our [plans](#neon-plans) below.

## Neon billing metrics

Neon's charges for usage based on the following metrics:

> - **Compute time**: The amount time that Neon compute resources are active.

Reviewer: this definition makes it hard to distunguish the Compute time from Active time.

> - **Project storage**: The amount of data stored in your Neon projects.

Reviewer: Project storage captures both data and history, this should be reflected in the definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Project storage**: The size of the data and history stored for your project.
```

- **Written data**: The amount of data written from compute to storage.
- **Data transfer**: The amount of data transferred out of Neon.

See [Billing metrics explained](#billing-metrics-explained) for a detailed description of each metric and how Neon calculates costs.

## Neon plans

|                          | Free Tier                         | Pro (usage-based)             | Custom - Enterprise or Platform Partnership (volume-based)|
|:-------------------------|:----------------------------------|:-----------------|:--------------------------|
|**Best for**              | Prototyping and personal projects       | Small-to-medium sized teams, setups with 1 to 3 active databases  | Medium-to-large sized teams, Database fleets, Resale |
|**Projects**              | 1                                 | 20               | Unlimited                 |

> |**Compute active time per month** | 100 hours                 | Unlimited        | Unlimited                 |

Reviewer: this should have a remark that a primary branch can go past the 100 hours limit

Author: Added.

|**Compute size**          | Up to 1 vCPU with 1 GB RAM   | Up to 7 vCPUs, each with 4 GB RAM     | Custom           |
|**Storage**               | 3 GB per branch                   | 200 GB        | Unlimited                 |
|**Dedicated resources**   | -                            | -           | &check;                   |
|**Project sharing**       | -                            | &check;          | &check;                   |
|**Auto-suspend compute**  | &check;                           | &check;          | &check;                   |
|**Configurable auto-suspend compute (coming soon)**  | -                           | &check;          | &check;                   |

> |**Always-on compute (coming soon)**     | -                            | &check;          | &check;                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
i suggest to drop this item as this is repetitive with the previous item (Configurable auto-suspend compute)

|**Autoscaling (coming soon)**     | -                            | &check;          | &check;                   |
|**Payment**               | Free                              | Credit Card, Pay As You Go with monthly invoicing | Prepaid, Custom Contract, Volume Discounts |
|**Support**               | Community, support tickets                 | Community, support tickets, video chat          | Community, support tickets, video chat, resale customer support                   |

<Admonition type="info">
The limits described above are plan defaults. If you would like to adjust the limits to tailor a plan to your specific requirements, please contact [sales@neon.tech](mailto:sales@neon.tech).
</Admonition>

> Our [Pricing](https://neon.tech/pricing) page provides additional information and a calculator you can use to estimate costs and determine which plan is right for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

temporarily  because we ship on Wednesday without the pricing page

## Account billing page

Each Neon account has a billing page, where you can:

- View your current billing total for the month-to-date, including a cost breakdown by [billing metric](#neon-billing-metrics).
- Update your payment details
- Download your latest invoices

To access your billing page:

1. Navigate to the Neon Console.
1. Select **Billing** from the sidebar.

## Neon invoices

A Neon invoice includes an **Amount due** for billing period and the cost broken down by [billing metric](#neon-billing-metrics).

### Download invoices

You can download invoices from the **Billing** page.

1. Navigate to the **Billing** page in the Neon Console. 
1. Under **Latest invoices**, locate the invoice you want to download and click the PDF download icon.

## Cancel a subscription

To cancel your subscription to a Neon paid plan:

1. Navigate to the **Billing** page in the Neon Console.
1. Click **Cancel subscription**.
1. Enter your cancellation request and click **Submit**.

> This action initiates the cancellation. If your data exceeds [Free Tier](/docs/introduction/technical-preview-free-tier) storage limits, you will be contacted by the Neon Support team with a request to reduce your storage before the paid plan is canceled and Free Tier limits are applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This action initiates the cancellation. If your data exceeds [Free Tier](/docs/introduction/technical-preview-free-tier) storage limits, you will need to reduce your storage before the paid plan is canceled and Free Tier limits are applied. Your request will be processed by the Neon Support team.
```

rewording slightly so that a reader does not think they need to wait for the support person to reach out to start reducing their usage

> ## Billing metrics explained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Billing and usage metrics explained
```

suggesting this to fit in the Active time here (we're using it for limiting the Free Tier, not for billing, but we're going to show it to the users on Pro too side by side with Compute time

Factors that affect the amount of compute time include:

- The number of active compute endpoints
- The number of CUs per compute endpoint
- Neon's _Auto-suspend compute_ feature, which suspends a compute endpoint (and its CUs) after a period of inactivity. The current default is five minutes.
- Neon's _Configurable auto-suspend compute_ feature, which allows you to configure the timeout period for the  _Auto-suspend compute_ feature (_coming soon_).
- Neon's _Always-on_ compute feature, which keeps an endpoint active indefinitely to avoid the few seconds of connection latency when waking an idle compute (_coming soon_).
- Neon's _autoscaling_ feature, which allows you to set a minimum and maximum number of CUs for each compute endpoint. The number of active CUs scale up and down based on workload (_coming soon_).

The cost calculation for _Compute time_ is as follows:

```text
compute units * active time (hours) * price per hour
```

### Project storage

> The _Project storage_ metric counts the amount of data stored in all of your Neon projects. Project storage includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _Project storage_ metric measures the amount of data and history stored in your Neon projects. Project storage includes:
```

> - **Logical data size**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Current data size**
```

  The size of all databases in your Neon projects. You can think of this as a _snapshot_ of your data at a point in time.

> - **Retained Write-Ahead Log (WAL) records**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **History**
```

Author: changed to History

>   Neon retains Write-Ahead Log (WAL) records to support _point-in-time restore_ and _database branching_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Neon retains history to support _point-in-time restore_ and _database branching_.
```
@hlinnaka , what is the right way to mention the WAL when explaining the history size? could you suggest a wording?

Author: Revised to focus on "history" as the second component of Project storage size

  - _Point-in-time restore_ is the ability to restore data to a past point in time. Neon stores seven days of data history in the form of WAL records for a Neon project. WAL records that fall out of this seven-day window are evicted from storage and no longer counted toward project storage.
  - A _database branch_ is a snapshot of your data (including _data history_) at the point of branch creation combined with WAL records that capture data changes from that point forward.

>     When a branch is first created, it adds no storage. No data changes have been introduced yet, and the branch's snapshot data still exists in the parent branch's _data history_, which means that it shares the snapshot data in common with the parent branch. A branch only begins adding to storage when data changes are introduced or when the branch snapshot falls out of the parent branch's _data history_, in which case the branch's snapshot data is no longer shared in common. In other words, branches add storage when you modify data and allow the branch to age out of the parent branch's _data history_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When a branch is first created, it adds no storage. No data changes have been introduced yet, and the branch's snapshot data still exists in the parent branch's _data history_, which means that it shares the data in common with the parent branch. A branch only begins adding to storage when data changes are introduced or when the branch starting point falls out of the parent branch's _data history_, in which case the branch's data is no longer shared in common. In other words, branches add storage when you modify data and allow the branch to age out of the parent branch's _data history_.
```

    Database branches can also share a _data history_. For example, two branches created from the same parent at or around the same time will share a _data history_, which avoids additional storage. The same is true for a branch created from another branch. Wherever possible, Neon minimizes storage through shared data history. Additionally, to keep storage to a minimum, Neon will take a new branch snapshot if the amount data changes stored as WAL grows to the point that a new snapshot would consume less storage.

The cost calculation for _Project storage_ is as follows:

```text

> project storage (GiB) * (seconds stored / 3600) * price per hour

Reviewer: In the UI we plan to show both the current value of the Project storage and also the accrued GiBh since the beginning of the billing period. tentatively we suggest to call the latter 'Project storage (cum.)', but i'm very much looking for the alternative proposals

```

### Written data

> The _Written data_ metric counts the amount of data changes written to the Write-Ahead Log (WAL) to ensure durability of your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _Written data_ metric measures the amount of data changes written from storage. Neon handles makes sure this data is processed in a reliable way to ensure durability of your data.
```

not insisting, but suggest to consider at least to try defining this without the references to WAL

## Account billing page

Each Neon account has a billing page, where you can:

- View your current billing totals
- Start a paid subscription
- Update your payment details
- Download current and previous invoices

To access your billing page:

1. Navigate to the Neon Console.
1. Select **Billing** from the sidebar.

## Neon invoices

A Neon invoice includes the total cost for the billing period and the cost broken down by [billing metric](#neon-billing-metrics).

### Download invoices

You can download invoices from the **Billing** page.

1. Navigate to the **Billing** page in the Neon Console. The current invoice is displayed.
1. Download the invoice:
    1. To download the current invoice, click **Download PDF** from the top of the page.
    1. To download an invoice for a previous billing period, select the invoice from the **Latest invoices** list to open it, then click **Download PDF**.

## Cancel a subscription

To cancel your subscription to a Neon paid plan:

1. Navigate to the **Billing** page in the Neon Console.
1. Click **Cancel subscription**.
1. Enter your cancellation request and click **Submit**.

> This action initiates the cancellation. If your data exceeds  free-tier storage limits, you will be contacted by the Neon Support team with a request to reduce your storage before the paid plan is canceled and free-tier limits are applied.

Reviewer 2: What will happen if the user won't reduce the storage to fit into limits?

Author: @acervantes23 What will happen if the user won't reduce the storage to fit into limits? Would we "archive" the project or would it be removed?

Reviewer 3: @danieltprice from our Cancelation guide: 

We will determine which project seams to be the most active and suspend all other projects. In addition, we will determine which branches are the most active and suspend access to all other branches. 

 We will keep the projects and storage for up to 60 days with the option to remove this afterwards.

Reviewer 3: Link to guide: https://www.notion.so/neondatabase/Cancellation-Policy-direct-sales-self-serve-6608fe65a66f4a679d1e300b10bfca54?pvs=4

Author: I think we need a separate doc/section on the cancellation policy. We can link to it from here. I have created a Docs task in GitHub to do that.

Factors that affect the amount of compute time include:

- The number of active compute endpoints
- The number of CUs per compute endpoint
- Neon's _auto-suspend compute_ feature, which suspends a compute endpoint (and its CUs) after a specified period of inactivity (5 minutes).
- Neon's _autoscaling_ feature, which allows you to set a minimum and maximum number of CUs for each compute endpoint. The number of active CUs scale up and down based on workload. _This feature is not yet available._
- Neon's _always-on_ compute feature, which keeps one endpoint active indefinitely to avoid connection latency due compute endpoint startup time. _This feature is not yet available._

The cost calculation for _Compute time_ is as follows:

```text
compute units * active time (hours) * price per hour
```

### Project storage

The _Project storage_ metric counts the amount of data stored in all of your Neon projects. Project storage includes:

- **The logical data size of your data**

>   This includes the size of all databases in your Neon projects, PostgreSQL SLRU (simple least-recently-used) caches, and a small amount of metadata. You can think of this as a _snapshot_ of your data at a point in time and similar to the data size that you would see in a standalone PostgreSQL installation.

Reviewer 2: To be precise, currently we do not account SLRU size in logical size.

from pageserver code:
```    /// Does the same as get_current_logical_size but counted on demand.
    /// Used to initialize the logical size tracking on startup.
    ///
    /// Only relation blocks are counted currently. That excludes metadata,
    /// SLRUs, twophase files etc.
    pub async fn get_current_logical_size_non_incremental(
 ```
    
I think this should be fixed in the code, not in the documentation.
@stepashka , should we create an issue for that and prioritize it?

Author: @stepashka Should I remove mention of SLRU caches and metadata?

      ```text
      main   ---------########>
                      ^        
                  snapshot

      Legend:

      ####### point-in-time-restore window, which is 
              retained data history in the form of WAL 
              records

      ------- data history (WAL) that has fallen out of the 
              point-in-time-restore window, and can no
              longer be accessed
      ```

  - A _database branch_ is a snapshot of your data (including the parent branch's retained history) at the point of branch creation combined with WAL records that capture data changes from that point forward.

      When a branch is first created, it adds no storage. No data changes have been introduced yet and the branch's snapshot data still exists in the parent branch's point-in-time restore window, which means that it shares this data in common with the parent branch.

      ```text
      main   ---------########>
                      ^      |
                   snapshot  |
                             |
      branch A               #>
                             ^

>                           snapshot  

Reviewer 2: To me this illustration reads as if we create an extra snapshot on branch A, which we don't do.
Did you mean something different?

Reviewer 2: I think I was confused by this phase "You can think of this as a snapshot of your data at a point in time and similar to the data size that you would see in a standalone PostgreSQL installation." ,a few lines above in logical size definition.

I read it as if snapshot means something material, not just a moment in time.
Not sure, how to word it better, so feel free to resolve this.

      and b) when the branch snapshot falls out of the parent branch's point-in-time-restore window, in which case the branch snapshot data is no longer shared in common with the parent branch.

      ```text
      main   --------------------#######>
                              |  ^
                              |  snapshot
                              |
      branch A                ##########>
                              ^
                           snapshot
      ```  

      In other words, branches add storage when you modify data and when you allow the branch to age out of the parent branch's point-in-time-restore window.

      Database branches can also share data history. For example, two branches created from the same parent at or around the same time will share data history, which avoids additional storage. The same holds true for a branch created from another branch. Wherever possible, Neon minimizes the storage cost of branches through shared data history. If it helps keeps storage size to a minimum, Neon will also take a new a branch snapshot to reduce the amount data changes stored as WAL.

The cost calculation for _Project storage_ is as follows:

```text

> project storage (GiB) * (seconds stored / 60) * price per hour

Reviewer 2: should it be `(seconds stored / 3600) * price per hour` instead?

Author: @acervantes23 Can you comment on the question above?

Reviewer 3: Good catch @lubennikovaav, let's go with: `(seconds stored / 3600) * price per hour`

Author: changed. Thank you.

```

### Written data

> The _Written data_ metric counts the amount of data changes written to the Write-Ahead Log (WAL) to ensure durability of your data. Neon writes data changes to the WAL concurrently on multiple nodes to avoid compromising write speed.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention something about writing data to different AZs?

Author: @acervantes23 please see question above about writing to different AZs

Reviewer 3: @danieltprice I think we can go with: "..on multiple nodes, in different Availability Zones, to avoid compromising write speed."

Author: changed to: Neon processes this data in a reliable way to ensure durability of your data.

| AWS            | US East (Ohio)  | Written data  | $0.09600 | GB |
| AWS            | US East (Ohio)| Data transfer  | $0.09000 | GB |
|                |             |                |       |      |
| AWS            | US West (Oregon)| Data storage | $0.00014 | GB/Hour |
| AWS            | US West (Oregon)     | Compute time  | $0.10200 | Compute/Hour |
| AWS            | US West (Oregon)     | Written data  | $0.09600 | GB |
| AWS            | US West (Oregon)  | Data transfer  | $0.09000 | GB |
|                |             |                |       |      |
| AWS            | Europe (Frankfurt)| Data storage  | $0.00016 | GB/Hour |
| AWS            | Europe (Frankfurt)| Compute time| $0.11800 | Compute/Hour |
| AWS            | Europe (Frankfurt)     | Written data    | $0.096000 | GB |
| AWS            | Europe (Frankfurt)     | Data transfer    | $0.09000 | GB |
|                |             |                |       |      |
| AWS            | Asia Pacific (Singapore)  | Data storage    | $0.00016 | GB/Hour |
| AWS            | Asia Pacific (Singapore)| Compute time    | $0.12100 | Compute/Hour |
| AWS            | Asia Pacific (Singapore)| Written data  | $0.09600 | GB |

> | AWS            | Asia Pacific (Singapore)| Data transfer  | $0.09000 | GBh |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| AWS            | Asia Pacific (Singapore)| Data transfer  | $0.09000 | GB |
```
